.\"
.\"  This manual page section is maintained by Michael Meifert,
.\"  <mime@dk3hg.hanse.de>. Since this information is availabe
.\"  by readind the documentation files, I don't intend to work
.\"  on the man pages this time. 
.\"
.\"  Thanks for his work on this documentaion file !
.\"
.\"
.\"
.PU
.TH CONVERS 1 "3 May 1994 " "Ping-Pong Convers" "Ping-Pong Convers Manual"
.SH NAME
convers \- Ping-Pong convers for wampes 
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B convers 
[
.RB -c
.IR channel
] [
.RB -s
.IR host:service
] [
.RB -a
.IR audiodir
] [
.RB -l
.IR logname
] [
.RB -t
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP 10
.B convers
is the user interface to conversd. Compared to a standard telnet connection
to port 3600 there are some enhancements like the gnu readline library (command
line history), shell escapes, and startup command file execution.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B -c
specify the channel you want to log into. If this option is not set, the
client will default to channel 0. 
.TP
.B -a
set an alternate path for the phonems if the client is compiled with support
for speech output.
.TP
.B -l
set the pseudonym to use for this client session. If this is ommitted, the 
client uses your system login name as default.
.TP
.B -s
specify the socket the session will be established on. If ommitted, the
client will use the compiled-in default values, according to the type of
convers you want to log in (i.e. convers, lconvers, kaconvers, suconvers,
wconvers)
.TP
.B -t
with this option the speech output is enabled.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP 1.0i
.B ~/.conversrc
user's file of startup commands.
.TP
.B /usr/local/lib/phonemes
default audio directory.
.PP
.SH CONVERS  User-Commands
.TP
.B /?
Print help information
.TP
.B /Away [text]
Mark user as being away
.TP
.B /ACtion text
write action to channel
.TP
.B /ALl text
send text to all users
.TP
.B /Beep
toggle Beep-Mode
.TP
.B /Bell
toggle Beep-Mode
.TP
.B /BYe
Terminate the convers session
.TP
.B /Channel n
Switch to channel n
.TP
.B /CHARset [in [out]]
Change terminal emulation (default ansi)
.TP
.B /Destinations
List reachable ping-pong hosts
.TP
.B /Exit
Terminate the convers session
.TP
.B /EXClude user text
Send Text to all on channel except user
.TP
.B /Filter [off|userlist]
Sets a message filter. Messages (channel, personal and action) of users in
userlist are no more shown.
.TP
.B /Help [command]
Print help information
.TP
.B /HOsts
List reachable ping-pong hosts
.TP
.B /Invite user
Invite user to join your channel
.TP
.B /IMsg user text
Send Text to all on channel except user
.TP
.B /IWrite user text
Send Text to all on channel except user
.TP
.B /Join
Switch to channel n
.TP
.B /Links [args]
List or setup links (see \"help links\")
.TP
.B /LISt
List all channels and topics
.TP
.B /LAst user
List last appearances of user
.TP
.B /LEave [channel]
Leaves specified or default channel
.TP
.B /Msg user|#channel text 
Send message to a user or joined channel
.TP
.B /ME text
write action to channel
.TP
.B /MOde #channel options
Set channel options
.TP
.B /NOtify [calls]
Send notice if one of calls signs on
.TP
.B /NOTE [text]
set personal description
.TP
.B /Operator [number]
become Operator
.TP
.B /Personal [text]
set personal description
.TP
.B /PRompt abcd
prompts a=query b=std c=ctrl-g d=ctrl-h
.TP
.B /Quit
Terminate the convers session
.TP
.B /QUEry [user]
Start/End a private conversation
.TP
.B /Send user text
Send a private message to user
.TP
.B /Topic [#chan] [text]
set channel topic
.TP
.B /Users [*|A|L|Q]
List users and their channel numbers
.TP
.B /UPtime
how long is this conversd up ?
.TP
.B /Verbose
toggles verbose Flag
.TP
.B /VERSion
show version information
.TP
.B /Who [*|A|L|Q]
List users and their channel numbers
.TP
.B /WIdth [value]
set/show terminal width
.TP
.B /WRite user text
Send a private message to user
.SH CONVERS 
.B help <command>
.TP 8
.BR all
If you are in /query mode, a text written with /all at the front will be 
displayed as a normal convers text writtento all users on this channel.  
.TP 8
.BR away
/away sets an away-text for the other users. called with no additional 
arguments, you are marked as being back again.  
.TP 8
.BR beep
The beep command toggles a warning bell (^G) being sent before every 
message coming from another user. This command really is a subset of 
the /prompt command, see there. 

.TP 8
.BR char
With this command, you can tell the convers deamon which type of umlauts 
you prefer to use. The Syntax is /char [intype [outtype]]. For example, 
if you work on an Atari st you could say: "/char atari atari". If you 
use a pc and like to write your own umlauts in TeX style, "/char tex pc" 
may work. Play a bit around with this feature ! Special Thanks 
to Thommy, <dl9sau@,thynet.sub.org> (Inter-net mail) 
<dl9sau@db0sao.ampr.org> (AmPR-Net mail) who wrote this nice feature.
Suggestions to this feature should be redirected to him :-) 

.TP 8
.BR dest
All Pingpong hosts in the network being connected to each other are listed.
The numbers shown in the list are response times in seconds.  

.TP 8
.BR excl
The exclude command is the opposite of the /msg command. You can send 
messages to all users on the channel except the one given as the first 
parameter. Internally these messages are sent as private messages to the 
users, so links are flooded a bit more :-)

.TP 8
.BR filt
The filter command activates a message filter to prevent you from
annoying messages of your very special friends. <userlist> is a list of
calls, separated with blanks. "/filter" without an argument given
displays the current status of the filter, "/filter off" will deactivate
it.

.TP 8
.BR help
The help command may be invoked with an additional parameter. I believe 
you hacked in "help help" to see this, right ? :-). better try out 
help options that are followed by an additional command. BTW: 
the preceding "/" must not be given for the command's name 
in help command. 

.TP 8
.BR invi
An invitation tho the named user is sent. The invite is passed through 
all convers nodes in the net. If the user is on another channel,
he will be able to join your private channel. If he is online on a 
unix machine, he will receive the invitation message via standard 
broadcast by conversd. In the latter case he will be unable to join 
a private channel directly. 

.TP 8
.BR join 
Join another channel.  Unlike other other conversd implementations 
Ping-Pong- conversd supports multiple channel joins the same time.  Thus the 
old channel is not left.  You may do this by invoking "/leave".  

.TP 8
.BR last 
The last sign on and sign of of the specified user is diplayed.  You 
must at know his name then the data base will be searched to look up the 
login/out time.  Special thanks to Wolfgang Tremmel for his basic work on 
this item His email adresses are <dh2paf@db0sao.ampr.org> and 
<tremmel@ira.uka.de>.

.TP 8
.BR leav 
Invoking this command you will leave the actual channel or the 
specified channel.  If the given channel is your last existence in the 
convers channel, you'll quit the whole program.  

.TP 8
.BR link 
The current link state is displayed.  In the standard version, host 
name, link state, link round trip times, neighbour revision codes and 
statetime followed by time of next try and count of connect tries (on 
disconnected or connecting links) are shown, connected lines print out their 
queue lengt and total transmit statistics. If you are sysop, you may also 
set up or remove links at runtime. Adding a link might happen like 
this:"/l dc6iq-u 2 4 unix:/tcp/.sockets/netcmd connect tcp dc6iq 
3600" In this command a host called dc6iq-u will be entered into group 2 
by by quality 4.  The link will be established by using WAMPES.

.TP 8
.BR list 
All channels, their topics (if set), flags (if some) and users are 
displayed.  

.TP 8
.BR me 
If you want to display an action you take, you might use this command.  
E.g.  entering the line "/me yawns" all connected users in this channel 
will see a message like: "*** dc6iq yawns" 

.TP 8
.BR mode 
The mode command is one of the most complicated ones.  It is invoked 
with /mode <channel> <+|-><t|i|s|m|p|l|o<name>>.  Flags may be a set of the 
following: 

.B t 
- channel topic may be set by channel operators only 

.B i 
- channel is invisible for users not on it 

.B s 
- channel is secrect, only its number not displayed 

.B m 
- channel is moderated, only channel-operators may talk 

.B p 
- channel is private, invitation needed to join here

.B l 
- channel is local, no text forwarding to other nodes (NYI) 

.B o<name> 
- make <name> a channel operator.

The plus indicates an option to be set, a dash resets the option.  
A combination of + and - is allowed so the following command will 
work: "/mode 69 -s+todc6iq". Channel 69 is no longer secret, but 
topics may be set only by channel operators. In addition the user 
dc6iq becomes a channel operator.  

.TP 8
.BR msg 
Send a text to one special user or a joined channel.  If the message 
should be redirected to a channel, The command must be invoked in this 
syntax: "/msg #<channel> <text>".  The adressee (if user) can indicate the 
private character of the message due to additional asterisks in his received 
lines. a mesage written by dc6iq to dc1ik looks like this: "/m dc1ik This 
is a Test" will be received by dc1ik like this: "<*dc6iq*>: This is a 
test".  

.TP 8
.BR noti 
You are notified if one person out of the notification list appears on 
any channel in this convers. E.g."/notify + dc1ik" adds the user dc1ik 
to the notification list, "/notify - db4ut" removes him from the list.  
The list is initially treated as if a plus "+"-sign was given, multiple 
lists may be specified.  The following command would be legal and would 
result in adding dc1ik, db4ut and dg3kcr to the list, while removing dc6iq 
and dh2paf: "/notify dh2paf + dc1ik db4ut - dc6iq dh2paf 
+dg3kcr" Removing non-members to the list is ignored.

.TP 8
.BR oper 
Invoking this command, a random number from 0..99999 will be displyed.  
Take each digit, multiply with the corresponding digit in the secret number 
at the configuration file, sum it and enter the number by invoking "/oper 
<n>".  

.TP 8
.BR pers 
A brief description can be set up, accessible to all users via the 
"/who"- command.  A typical Message looks like this: "/pers Fred, 
Buechig, JN49fb".  

.TP 8
.BR prom 
The prompt command takes up to four arguments in one concatenated 
string.  Thus "/prompt abcd" will set up "a" for the query prompt, "b" 
for the standard prompt. "d" is the character to remove the prompt, and 
"c" is displayed whenever a text is sent to you.  Normally you make "c" 
a control-G (beep char) and "d" a backspace or delete character 
(control-h or 0x7f).  

.TP 8
.BR quer 
The username given as argument will be the only recipient for all 
further texts.  They are send as private messages (just like /m).  With no 
optional argument, the further texts go into the whole channel again.  

.TP 8
.BR quit 
Passing this command to conversd, you will retire from the famous 
Ping-Pong conversation.  I hope you enjoyed this stuff :-) 

.TP 8
.BR topi 
A brief description of the channel topic can be set.  Other users can 
look it up with the "/who quick" or "/list" commands.  If the channel 
number is omitted, the topic will be set to the current channel, else to the 
desired one.  if no #channel is given, the topic will appear on the current 
channel, if speci- fied, the topic on that channel will be set (only if 
youre logged on to that channel).

.TP 8
.BR upti 
The uptime command tells us how long this conversd is up and running.  

.TP 8
.BR verb 
The verbose flag is toggled.  You will be flooded with information if 
you enable this feature.  

.TP 8
.BR vers  
Print out version information to this software.  

.TP 8
.BR who 
The who command supports up to four switches.  An "a" will diplay all 
users and their Away texts, if set.  A "l" generates a _long_ list 
containing personal texts, away texts and Queue informations.  A "q" gives 
a brief list.  An asterisk "*" displays the users on your current channel 
in normal mode.  

.TP 8
.BR whoi 
This is a question to conversd. "/whois dc6iq" will show all 
available informations about dc6iq, i.e.  joined channels, personal 
description, away message and times.  

.TP 8
.BR widt 
Tell conversd about your screen width.  Then formatted messages will 
use the entire screen.  It is set to 80 by default.  

.\" TODO Die Kommandos sollten ausgeschrieben sein, jedoch eine Erklaerung
.\"      dabeistehen, welche Abkuerzungen verwendet werden koennen.

.SH CAVEATS
The client now sets "horizontal-scroll-mode on". This may conflict with
the settings in your .inputrc. This only applys if you compiled the
client with -DREADLINE.

.SH AUTHORS
The Ping-Pong convers package was written by Fred Baumgarten 
(dc6iq@insl1.etec.uni-karlsruhe.de).
Convert.c was written by Thomas Osterried (dl9sau@fub46.zedat.fu-berlin.de).
Manual page by Michael Meifert (mime@dk3hg.hanse.de).
Modifications by Matthias Welwarsky
(Matthias.Welwarsky@ppp.th-darmstadt.de).
