.\"
.\"  This manual page section is maintained by Michael Meifert,
.\"  <mime@dk3hg.hanse.de>. Since this information is available
.\"  by readind the documentation files, I don't intend to work
.\"  on the man pages this time. 
.\"
.\"  Thanks for his work on this documentaion file !
.\"
.\"  Modified for htpp-1.20 by Hessu
.\"
.PU
.TH CONVERSD 8 "4 May 1994 " "htpp Ping-Pong Convers" "htpp Ping-Pong Convers Manual"
.SH NAME
conversd \- Hessu's Tampa Ping-Pong conversd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 18
.B conversd [-f] [-t]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This is the Ping-Pong conversd, derived from WAMPES' conversd by Dieter
Deyke <deyke@mdddhd.fc.hp.com>. It is also used in the Internet for ham radio
conversation groups.
.PP
The "standard" TCP port to be used with conversd is 3600. You can change this
using the Port directive in the configuration file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 16
.BI \-f
By default, conversd makes itself a daemon by forking itself to the background
automatically. The -f parameter disables this behaviour, which can be useful
if you need to run it from inittab (respawn) or a looping shell script to restart
it after it dies in bugs.
.TP 16
.BI \-t
Runs conversd in try-only mode. Reads configuration file, does all initialization,
and dies immediately after that. Does not bind the port, accept connections or start
linking. Useful for verifying if your configuration is valid after changes, before
killing off the running copy and starting a new one.
.SH FILES
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/sbin/conversd
This is the daemon itself.
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/etc/convers.conf
Configuration file (self-documenting)
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/etc/convers.issue
General text. Displayed at connect time.
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/etc/convers.motd
Motto of the day is displayed at user login (after the /name command).
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/etc/convers.help
User /help file
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/var/cache/conversd/log/convers.log.*
Convers logins/logouts are logged here for the /last command.
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/var/cache/conversd/personals/<callsign>
User /personals are saved here.
.TP 1.0i
.B /usr/local/var/cache/conversd/nicknames/<callsign>
User /nicknames are saved here.

.PP

.SH UPDATES
.LP
Newer releases of this software might be found here:
http://x-berg.in-berlin.de/cgi-bin/viewvc.cgi/ampr/conversd-saupp.tar.gz?view=tar
http://db0tud.ampr.org/cgi-bin/viewvc.cgi/ampr/conversd-saupp.tar.gz?view=tar


.SH AUTHORS
The Ping-Pong convers package was written by Fred Baumgarten 
(dc6iq@insu1.etec.uni-karlsruhe.de).
Convert.c was written by Thomas Osterried (thomas@x-berg.in-berlin.de).
Original manual page by Michael Meifert (mime@dk3hg.hanse.de).
The server was enhanced and renamed to tpp by Brian Lantz.
And later, cleaned up, enhanced more and renamed to htpp by Heikki Hannikainen <hessu@hes.iki.fi>.
Minor mods and bugfixes by Tony Jenkins G8TBF. Changed to V1.23.
This version is conversd-saupp (started as v1.6), fixes several bugs.
